hi I'm Mark Wood I'm a professional
freelance cartoonist and today I'm going
to be showing you how to draw cartoons
and caricatures I'm going to show how to
draw Sonic the Hedgehog so basically if
you start with a circle and inside that
circle you want to come and draw a line
round like this and to the other side so
you end up with like a sausage shape
inside the circle on the end of this end
on the end of the sausage here you put a
circle and we just come in shade it in
all the times now if you go over to the
other side we got to put the mouth in so
just do a smiley line there like a
curved line and you come down and that's
where the teeth are going to be you just
do a couple of lines to show the teeth
we just thicken this up a little bit
there sausage just make it a little bit
for your space now if you go to the back
end of the sausage here just literally
above the mouth you're going to come up
do a curvy line and you want to come
down towards near the nose and then you
come back up towards the edge of your
circle here that's going to form the
shape of Sonic's eyes so you're going to
put a circle there look up from Sonic's
eye and this one you can only see part
of the eye so you've got to put a little
bit there and then we just shake them
even a little bit of white at the top of
the eye above that just put a little
line there his eyebrow and you can do
another one here but you just come just
outside the circle and back it and
you've got basically the SuperSonics
face when you get to the top of the
circle here sort of about 11 o'clock ish
you can put the triangle which is going
to be selects here and on the outside of
that do another triangle she's not the
outside of the year if you've got the
shape there and then move over to the
other side and another triangle go to
the top of say this I here and then
we've got sonic spikes to do so we're
going to come up and over here and you
do another one
I'm going to bring them down roughly
because as you come down you want to
come back in here to sort of the bottom
of sort of the circle why that little
bit there's a little line coming up
there in the side of his face and you've
got Sonic's face drawn now the body is
very very easy you just do another
circle as you joined on to the servlet
you've already done and in there you do
a little sort of a circular shape here
like your stomach for the length you
want to just do some straight lines
coming off of the bottom and to their
left the leg shape if you round them off
at the bottom like that because we're
going to draw this little off the socks
that he has on the top of his trainer so
you're going to come out and you're just
going to come back in like that you do
the same again just below and sign on
the other side twice and then you join
them up why that go do the same on the
other leg obviously can't see all of it
because this one is obscuring it
slightly so you've got his socks
shade there and the shoes are nice and
easy you just do shape like that very
big feet so you need to come out pour it
away otherwise there look a bit small
when they're meant to be on the larger
size so if you come around once you've
drawn the outlines you come round here
just do a line just inside for the souls
I'll come up see if and see them a
little bit better and then he has a
stripe in the middle of his shoes or
trainers I should say and you've got the
legs down then we move on to the arms
it's going to be doing the thumbs up on
this hand so I'm going to come down the
down just got two straight lines there
and you're going to come up like that
and then you can do the same for his
gloves the same sort of shape as you've
done for the socks on top of the trailer
so you come out and in and out and again
like that
now you're going to come up with the
thumb nice big thumb
like that and for the thing that you
want to go over to the other side of
hand and what you weight towards the
thumb so you've got four fingers on the
hand which is unusual cartoon characters
because any normally have three and you
come up with each one building there
onto the thumb and you've got you shake
there she move over to the other arm at
hand which you're going to build his hip
so you're going to come out from your
circle the backside of your circle
coming out and back in then you're going
to the top of the glove again if you
round off the bottom of the arm you do
the top of the glove again which is very
similar to the socks and the claw three
two on the other side why so and in the
hand on the hip he's going to come
across onto the circle and you just do a
couple of lines like that and move along
like that so you've got sort of a curvy
line here just inside that bring that
join the two together for his hand you
can just do a little line there for his
thumb and then we need to put on his
tail so you did a little point sticking
up just on under his cloth doesn't know
if it's a little bit higher than bit low
it doesn't really matter where that one
goes and then the only thing we've got
left to do now is one more spike on his
back so we've got these three here and
then there's one more you can come out
from sort of if you come out sort of
every with his arm or you sort of
shoulder area you come out there and
then you come back in towards the glove
and that here's the other spike on his
back to darken up a few lines and that
is how to draw a sonic badge